== vPCAP Packet Visualizer

A simple web application that allows users to upload a PCAP file and visualize that file according to the specifications listed in the section below. This project was written in Ruby 2.3.1, Rails 3.2.22, and was developed/tested using tshark 2.2.0.


== Project Requirements

1. Create a simple web app that will take an uploaded PCAP, extract statistics from it, and then create a simple bubble chart with table off the data.
2. From the PCAP, extract the following with tshark and ruby:
     • All Hosts from the Host Field in the HTTP conversations (there should be 19 unique domains and 3 IP addresses)
     • For each unique host, collect the associated packets and build the following statistics:
        • Average packet size
        • Total packet count for conversations involving that host
3. Present the user with a bubble chart using d3.js that has a bubble for each host, the average packet size along the x-axis, and the size of the bubble is set by the total packet count. When the user clicks a bubble it should display the associated packets in a table below the chart.


== System Requirements

1. Ruby 2.3.1
2. Rails 3.2.22
3. Tshark 2.2.0


== Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:
    git clone git@github.com:jphase/Ruby-PCAP-Bubble-Chart.git

2. Change directory to Ruby-PCAP-Bubble-Chart
    cd Ruby-PCAP-Bubble-Chart

3. Use bundle install to install depencies
    bundle install

4. Rename the config/initializers/secret_token.rb.example file to config/intializers/secret_token.rb and edit the contents:
    mv config/initializers/secret_token.rb.example config/initializers/secret_token.rb

5. Edit line 7 of the secret_token.rb file from step 4 above and paste in the output of the following command accordingly:
    rake secret

6. Save your changes, change directories to your app's document root, and start the rails server
    rails server

7. Browse to http://localhost:3000 and upload a PCAP file!


== Description of Contents

The default directory structure of a generated Ruby on Rails application:

  |-- app
  |   |-- assets
  |   |   |-- images
  |   |   |-- javascripts
  |   |   `-- stylesheets
  |   |-- controllers
  |   |-- helpers
  |   |-- mailers
  |   |-- models
  |   `-- views
  |       `-- layouts
  |-- config
  |   |-- environments
  |   |-- initializers
  |   `-- locales
  |-- db
  |-- doc
  |-- lib
  |   |-- assets
  |   `-- tasks
  |-- log
  |-- public
  |   |-- uploads
  |-- script
  |-- test
  |   |-- fixtures
  |   |-- functional
  |   |-- integration
  |   |-- performance
  |   `-- unit
  |-- tmp
  |   `-- cache
  |       `-- assets
  `-- vendor
      |-- assets
      |   |-- javascripts
      |   `-- stylesheets
      `-- plugins

app
  Holds all the code that's specific to this particular application.

app/assets
  Contains subdirectories for images, stylesheets, and JavaScript files.

app/controllers
  Holds controllers that should be named like weblogs_controller.rb for
  automated URL mapping. All controllers should descend from
  ApplicationController which itself descends from ActionController::Base.

app/models
  Holds models that should be named like post.rb. Models descend from
  ActiveRecord::Base by default.

app/views
  Holds the template files for the view that should be named like
  weblogs/index.html.erb for the WeblogsController#index action. All views use
  eRuby syntax by default.

app/views/layouts
  Holds the template files for layouts to be used with views. This models the
  common header/footer method of wrapping views. In your views, define a layout
  using the <tt>layout :default</tt> and create a file named default.html.erb.
  Inside default.html.erb, call <% yield %> to render the view using this
  layout.

app/helpers
  Holds view helpers that should be named like weblogs_helper.rb. These are
  generated for you automatically when using generators for controllers.
  Helpers can be used to wrap functionality for your views into methods.

config
  Configuration files for the Rails environment, the routing map, the database,
  and other dependencies.

db
  Contains the database schema in schema.rb. db/migrate contains all the
  sequence of Migrations for your schema.

doc
  This directory is where your application documentation will be stored when
  generated using <tt>rake doc:app</tt>

lib
  Application specific libraries. Basically, any kind of custom code that
  doesn't belong under controllers, models, or helpers. This directory is in
  the load path.

public
  The directory available for the web server. Also contains the dispatchers and the
  default HTML files. This should be set as the DOCUMENT_ROOT of your web
  server. The uploads directory within the public directory are where you PCAP files
  are stored.

script
  Helper scripts for automation and generation.

test
  Unit and functional tests along with fixtures. When using the rails generate
  command, template test files will be generated for you and placed in this
  directory.

vendor
  External libraries that the application depends on. Also includes the plugins
  subdirectory. If the app has frozen rails, those gems also go here, under
  vendor/rails/. This directory is in the load path.
